Login authentication/validation
Dark mode: toggle switches
Event creation form :
	input fields, check boxes, dates, drop down, alert, submit button, radio button
search events
images & videos->blob
event update and deletion
event registration, payment transactions and validation
Point system
Notification & popup reminders
graph and analytics, sliders
chat bot & api

club creation, member management
Institution Management, creation, validation, clubs management, abstraction



Structure

com.anvay.backend
├── config             // Security, JWT, and Multi-tenancy filters
├── controller         // Authentication, SuperAdmin, Club, and Event APIs
├── dto                // Request/Response payloads for our endpoints
├── exception          // Global error handling
├── model              // JPA Entities (Tenants, Users, Clubs, Events, etc.)
├── repository         // Data access layers for each entity
├── service            // Business logic (e.g., points allocation, payment verification)
└── util               // Shared helpers (JWT utils, constants)




dashboard impl instead of event 
merge mathi+mithun+vitesh
dashboard front end fix
Angular setup





You’ve successfully transitioned your Anvay event management application from a local setup to a managed cloud environment. Here is a summary of the technical milestones you achieved:
1. Cloud Infrastructure Provisioning
Aiven Service Setup: You navigated the Aiven console to provision a managed MySQL 8 instance.
Regional Selection: You strategically chose the Bangalore (DigitalOcean) region to ensure low latency for your application, as you are developing from India.
Service Correction: You initially provisioned an Apache Kafka instance but quickly identified and corrected it to a MySQL database to match your Spring Data JPA requirements.
2. Database Security Configuration
SSL Implementation: You identified that Aiven requires encrypted connections (ssl-mode=REQUIRED).
Certificate Management: You downloaded the CA Certificate (ca.pem) and placed it in your project's root directory to allow your Java environment to establish a trusted handshake with the cloud server.
3. Spring Boot Integration
Data Source Mapping: You updated your application.properties with the cloud-specific Service URI, host (anvay-swastikatinkhede-7df7.l.aivencloud.com), and port (12534).
Driver Configuration: You configured the JDBC URL to include the SSL path, ensuring your Spring Boot backend can securely talk to the persistence layer.
Hibernate Dialect: You ensured the application is using MySQL8Dialect to correctly translate your Java @Entity classes into cloud-hosted SQL tables.
4. Architecture Evolution
Local to Cloud: By moving your MySQL instance to Aiven, you’ve shifted from a "Localhost" dependency to a Multi-Tier Cloud Architecture. Your Spring Boot API is now ready to be deployed to a hosting service while maintaining a persistent, high-availability database in the background.
What's the next goal for Anvay—are you looking to deploy the Spring Boot API to the cloud as well, or are you moving back to frontend development in Angular?




STEPS TO DEPLOY IN CODESPACE
 
Phase 1: Launch Your Cloud Machine
Go to your repository page on GitHub.
Click the green Code button.
Switch to the Codespaces tab.
Click Create codespace on main (or your working branch).
Wait for the VS Code editor to fully load in your browser.
Phase 2: Configure the Environment (Java & Maven)
Open a terminal (`Ctrl + ``) and run these commands to set up Java 21 and fix Maven permissions.
Install Java 21:
Bash
 
Plain Text
sdk install java 21.0.2-ms
sdk default java 21.0.2-ms


Make Maven executable:
Bash
 
Plain Text
   cd anvay/anvay  # Navigate to your backend folder   chmod +x mvnw


Phase 3: Spin Up the Database
Codespaces come with MySQL, but it is asleep and locked down by default. Let's wake it up and secure it.
Start the MySQL Service:
Bash
 
Plain Text
	
   sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get install mysql-server -y
   sudo service mysql start


Bypass the Linux Security Lock & Set Password:
Bash
 
Plain Text
sudo mysql -u root


(Inside the mysql> prompt, run these exactly):
SQL
 
Plain Text
   ALTER USER 'root'@'localhost' IDENTIFIED WITH mysql_native_password BY 'root';
   FLUSH PRIVILEGES;
   exit;


Create the ANVAY Database:
Bash
 
Plain Text
   mysql -u root -proot -e "CREATE DATABASE IF NOT EXISTS anvay;"


Phase 4: Configure and Run the Backend
Open your src/main/resources/application.properties file and ensure your database credentials look exactly like this:
Properties
 
Plain Text
   spring.datasource.url=jdbc:mysql://localhost:3306/anvayspring.datasource.username=rootspring.datasource.password=root
(Make sure you save the file!)2. Run Spring Boot:
Bash
 
Plain Text
   ./mvnw clean spring-boot:run
(Leave this terminal tab running. Do not close it.)
Phase 5: Configure and Run the Frontend
Open a second terminal tab (click the + icon in the terminal panel).
Navigate to your frontend folder:
Bash
 
Plain Text
   cd frontend/anvay-app


Open your package.json file and edit the "start" script to bypass the cloud router by adding --host 0.0.0.0. It should look like this:
JSON
 
Plain Text
   "scripts": {
     "start": "ng serve --host 0.0.0.0 --proxy-config proxy.conf.json"   }
(Make sure you save the file!)4. Install dependencies and run the frontend:
Bash
 
Plain Text
   npm install
   npm start
(Leave this terminal tab running too.)
Phase 6: Smash the Security Walls (Port Forwarding)
Because Codespaces is a private environment, you must tell GitHub to allow web traffic to your app.
Look at the bottom panel of VS Code and click the Ports tab.
You will see both your backend port (8081) and frontend port (4200) listed.
Right-click the word Private under the "Visibility" column for BOTH ports and change them to Public.
If 8081 stays private, your login buttons will fail.
If 4200 stays private, you can't share the link.
Hover over the "Forwarded Address" for port 4200 and click the Globe Icon to open your live application in a new browser tab!
For Next Time: .devcontainer
To avoid doing Phase 1 and Phase 2 every single time, use the VS Code Command Palette (Ctrl + Shift + P or Cmd + Shift + P), type Codespaces: Add Dev Container Configuration Files, and select a Java setup. Commit the generated folder to your repository, and GitHub will automate the environment setup for you on all future builds!
